BRIDGE. 
Now presumably empty, it was your work environment for the past XX years.
In the front there are two pilot seats and just behind them, another two. 
The rest of the area is filled with cabinets, tall consoles and a bunch of everyday junk. 
The BRIDGE is connected to MOTHER unit (1), GALLEY (2) and JUNCTION-1 (3).

Behind the tall cabinets next to you. 
Near the main console, under the desk.

MOTHER. 
You were never allowed in there, but now that Douglas and the rest are gone...
The room is surrounded with LED panels and small buttons positioned all over the walls and the ceiling.
You immediately see the main control panel, the one used to talk directly to MOTHER. 
All is pure white and so you quickly notice a sizzling with acid hole in the back. 
The MOTHER is connected only to the BRIDGE (0).

Inside spacious cabinet.
Under the desk.

GALLEY. 
The kitchen's a spacey room, it has a round table that used to be enough for 7 persons crew (and for Jones too).
The coffee's spilled, and so is his blood. It seems like yesterday, the day when Kane died. 
It was yesterday.
The kitchen was always such a frantic mess, now more than ever. 
The GALLEY is connected to the BRIDGE (0), JUNCTION A-1 (3) and to JUNCTION A-2 (6).

Inside one of the bigger drawers.
Under the main round table.

JUNCTION A-1.
There's a broken ladder right in the middle of the junction.
You mutter to yourself that probably it has always been broken, but you cannot be sure.
Big metal crates almost block the passage to the GALLEY, but there's an ideal gap both for you and for the ALIEN.
Just don't think about it too much. The JUNCTION A-1 is connected to the BRIDGE (0), GALLEY (2) and to the CORRIDOR (4).

Behind a tower of crates.
In that gap.

CORRIDOR. 
The entire corridor is filled with steam.
The pipes are moderately damaged and so are the vents up above. 
You try your hardest to breathe. 
Normally, you would be annoyed at Brett and Parker, those engineers were lazy as they could be, 
but now you only wanted to pass through. 
The CORRIDOR is connected to JUNCTION A-1 (3), MEDLAB (5), JUNCTION A-2 (6) and finally to ESCAPE PODS (A).

Behind a broken wall.
Inside a pipe. 

MEDLAB.
All the laboratory equipment that Ash was using is still on the floor,
he himself is thankfully still a burned 'corpse' on the counter. 
Your tired mind sees a few opened ventilation crates above... 
And many shelves near the observation pod, but the road to them is full of shattered glass. 
The MEDBAY is connected to the CORRIDOR (4). 

Inside the closest cabinet.
Under the laboratory bed.

JUNCTION A-2.
The ladder stands in the middle of the junction, but you have no business of going down there.
CHEMFUEL must be on this floor, you seem to be sure.
Vents are jagged and ripped apart, but only darkness and dust follows your gaze.
The JUNCTION A-2 is connected to GALLEY (2), CORRIDOR (4), HYPERSLEEP VAULT(7) and to the LIVING AREA (8).

Inside the nearest vent.
Behind the ladder.

HYPERSLEEP VAULT.
There are seven simple cots with glass lids, creating a circle shape in the middle of this massive bedroom.
Seven simple lockers, seven simple stools next to them.
It seems like all but one have been moved, but it could be just jitter inside your mind.
The HYPERSLEEP VAULT is connected to the JUNCTION A-2 (6).

Inside the closest cabinet.
Inside one of the cots. 

LIVING AREA. 
There is a fairly long l-shaped sofa in the corner of this room and a coffee table in front of it.
The cigarrette smell fills up the room and you almost trip on a can.
The lights are gone and you wouldn't notice a threat if it was hiding here.
The LIVING AREA is connected to the JUNCTION A-2 (6) and to WC (9).

Behind the sofa.
Under the table.

WC. 
It stinks in here. 
Why would you come here? 
Do you think the ALIEN will let you pee in peace? 
It probably watches you from that stall over there. 
The WC is connected to the LIVING AREA (8).

Left stall.
Right stall.
 
ESCAPE PODS. 
You are extremely visible right now, it is unnaturally white around. 
Nobody has ever used this room before.
Three pods but only one could work. Your only way out.
You just need to find the fuel. Before someone finds you...
The ESCAPE PODS are connected to the CORRIDOR (4).

Inside the suit closet.
Inside the broken pod.

Nostromo Escape is a game developed by:  
Daniil Khortov, Magdalena Rapala, Milosz Liniewiecki and Ruth Zhou  
As Asembler Programming Language project, made in 2025.   
You play as Ellen Ripley, the last Nostromo survivor.  
Still stuck on the ship, your goal is to collect 5 chemical fuels  
And survive long enough to escape via an escape pod.  
How to play?  
This is a text-based game, everything you do, you do so by writing in the terminal.  
There are time dependent decisions, you must pay attention.  
Now, good luck and remember:    
Press anything go back and start the game immediately:   	 
This is commercial towing vehicle Nostromo out of the Solomons,  
Registration number 180924609.  
Executive officer Ripley, W564502460H  
In need of dire help.  
Unknown ALIEN organism is trying to hunt me down.  
Plan of launching Narcissus light shuttle as the last means of escape.  
Pod lacks chemical fuel, search underway.  
Day of the recording - 5th June 2122.   
Enter anything to sign off:
MENU:  
[start]  
[help]  
[map]  
[exit]  
Since the MEDBAY is so well equipped,  
You think about heading towards the observation pod, hoping to find some WATER or CHEMFUEL.  
But the glass on the floor...  
The last thing you'd want is to slip and bleed here.  
Do you want to proceed ? Prepare to be quick.   
Deciding to move forward. Write ' word ' quick!    
You somehow manage to get across the room safely.  
To the rhythm of your pouding chest you open each cabinet around you.  
You find CHEMFUEL and WATER.  
Your walk starts out promising, but you fail to realise one crucial fact.  
These broken vials had liquids in them.  
You slip and the shards dig into your skin.  
You manage to retreat relatively undamaged.   
'This idea seems to risky to execute at this moment.'  
is the thought that flashes your mind.  
You turn back and check the exit of the area...  
No movements, good sign.    
'What if I slip? It will come, it will come to me' those thoughts are racing through your mind.  
You nervously look around the room  
And even though you saw that Lambert killed Ash, his 'corpse' still surprises you right now.  
You should be going. Your mind is not stable.  
Not enough for this.   
A strange feeling creeps into your mind, as if someone is watching you.  
You turn to see the 'corpse' of Ash staring directly at your skull.  
There's a scream, but it is not yours, it is Ash's.  
Do you shut him up? 
You cannot risk being noticed by the ALIEN.  
This is probably what Ash wants, he would do anything just to protect this creature.  
The question remains, how to shut up this synth?  
You need to be firm and quick, so you think about a few solutions:  
1. Kick him in the mouth (or what remains of it).  
2. Try to fry his circuits.   
3. Smash his head with a chair.  
What will you do?
This is the fastest method you could think of.  
You position yourself right in front of Ash laying on the counter.  
Not thinking much about it, you lift up your leg and stomp on the synth's face.  
The screaming does not stop, so you kick him  
Again  
And again,  
Ash tries to desperately bite onto your boot.  
Maybe the resonable solution would be to shake him off, but you press your boot harder in.  
After a while his fake teeth start to break under the pressure.  
You feel the resistance dying down suddenly.  
When the screaming finally ends, you step back and stare at what is left.  
It is a good thing, that you cannot see his eyes anymore.  
Your boot is covered in white fuel and you turn your back to him  
He was still your coworker. 
At least until he tried to kill you.
This will shut him up no matter how durable he could still be.  
Since you are in a lab, you are able to find fitting equipment for the job.  
You are glad it was not too hard to pry Ash's circuits open,  
His so called skull, was already half smashed.  
You take the wire and you attach the crocodile clips to his brain.  
The electricity shoots out immediately and licks your skin as well.  
The pain both you and Ash feel is so intense, you break free.  
Trying to electrocute him, you fried yourself as well.  
At least his screaming stops right in the moment,  
But his eyes give up and spill over the counter.  
Had he not tried to kill you, just a few hours before...  
You do not want to think what would be in your head then.
The chair will serve as an adequate barrier of protection against him...  
That is what you think as you grab the closest laboratory chair.  
You prepare for a short second and take a swing at Ash's poor skull.  
His head falls on the floor upon impact and shatters into more pieces.  
But most importantly, his screaming starts to stop.  
His vocal cords begin to glitch out and give out.  
White fuel spattered on your uniform and it tastes like oil...  
You are glad you do not taste blood right now.
Wait a second...  
You know the perfect solution and it is right here with you.  
Reaching into your backpack you grab a WATER bottle.  
It seems like the screaming is worsening as you make your way over to Ash.  
Without any hesitation you pour the water on his half-cracked skull.  
Among the sizzling and the glitching, his vocal cords give out.  
Some of his white fuel has leaked out on your pants and shoes...  
You are thankful it is not his blood.
Without thinking you run towards the corpse on the counter  
And you throw a punch you never realised you were capable of.  
Somehow Ash's teeth fall out afterwards.  
But since the screaming does not stop, you take a swing and   
Hit him again.  
His white fuel sprinkles all over your uniform, but you are not done yet.  
Punch after punch you see his vocal cords giving in and losing their power.  
It is done.  
You recoil and look at your bruised hand.  
Did his hand bruise the same when he was alive?  
No matter, this is a silly thought.
While examining your stained clothing,  
You notice some supplies on the ground.  
Upon closer inspection and wiping off the fuel off of the items,  
It turns out you have found 2 CHEMFUELS and 1 WATER hidden away.  
Better to leave, Ash's screaming could have called over the ALIEN.
Maybe it will be smarter to simply run away?  
Ash's screaming could call the ALIEN over to him and him only.  
This is the safest option, you tell yourself and turn around.
You panic and start screaming right back at him.  
It seems Ash has lost his core programming,  
Because he does not react to you.  
And yet, his stare is so frightening, you take a wrench and throw it at his side.  
You miss horribly... Instead of Ash, you hit the open ventilation crate above him.  
Since the metal was already loosely hanging, it breaks free.  
It hits Ash right in the skull, piercing it right through.  
You try to reach out to your face to gasp in shock,  
But a lose shard pricks your hand pretty badly.  
Thankfully, with the equipment available, you quickly patch yourself up.  
You are losing your mind, you acted so inanely...  
This commotion could have alerted the ALIEN, you should flee as soon as possible.
As you walk inside, you hear shallow breathing...  
The sound is coming from  
You walk closer...  
MEOW!!!  
It's Jonesy! He flees in fear before you can catch him.  
You hope you can see him again.
You hear ALIEN footsteps! Look for hiding locations!
Where will you hide ?
Type in your answer quickly! Choose 1 or 2!
Carefully, but swiftly, you slip away to the hiding spot.  
Hoping that the ALIEN won't see you, you freeze and hold your breath.  
The ALIEN in all of its glory searches for you.
It looks around and for a moment you feel as if you were going to die.  
But you will not. You will persist.  
At least for now.  
The ALIEN hears a distant rustle and marches towards the noise.  
You wait a short while and leave your hiding spot, still alive.
It looks around and for a moment you feel as if you are going to die.  
You have a hunch that you have been noticed.  
Before you can think, the ALIEN jumps towards you and slashes you with its tail.  
As you fall to your knees, your predator is content.  
The ALIEN dissapears as suddenly as it appeared.
You must be delirious, at a time like this you cannot decide.  
Full of horror, you try to hide in the plain sight.  
The ALIEN sees you almost immediately.  
You have a feeling that the ALIEN is dissapointed in you.  
You are such an easy prey and it wants to play.  
Before you can think, the ALIEN jumps towards you and slashes you with its tail.  
As you fall to your knees, your predator is unsatisfied.  
The ALIEN dissapears as suddenly as it appeared.
You freezed for too long and now the ALIEN has seen you.  
There is no escape.  
Before you can think, the ALIEN jumps towards you and slashes you with its tail.  
As you fall to your knees, your predator is content.  
The ALIEN dissapears as suddenly as it appeared.
You think to yourself that there must be some water left.  
Kneeling down, you check the appropriate storage.  
Canned peaches, canned pineapples, even canned tomatoes.  
Dallas really liked exotic fruits.  
You switch to a neighbouring shelf and here it is.  
There lies 3 WATER, all yours now. 
As you move through the shaft door, you notice something strange.  
It appears that one of the small shelves is slightly opened.  
Go towards it? 
Unsure of your choice, you walk to the shelf.  
It is from Ash's desk.  
Once you are near, you see 1 WATER inside.  
How could this be? Ash did not need to drink any water.  
He was able to and he was playing his role around us,  
But only and Dallas were allowed to enter this space.  
Did he try to fool himself too? No, he was a smart 'man'.  
But this is not the time to be analysing this situation.  
Thank you Ash, for this free water.
This seems too dangerous... I better not risk my life over this.  
What was hidden in the drawer, you will never know.  
You turn your back to the room.
You try to move forward, but you slip.  
WHAM! Your head bangs on the door, you whimper in pain.  
Holding your head in your palms,  
You slowly make your way towards the shelf.  
What is that... You are so confused, you cannot analyse the item properly.  
It must be some liquid... so it must be 1 WATER.  
But why is it here? Ash did not need to drink.  
This is so weird, I should get out of here. My head hurts...
Weirdly enough, this room is colder than the rest, emptier than the rest.  
You have never been allowed here, the Mother was a distant entity to you.  
Whatever Ash and Dallas talked with Mother about here, does it matter now?  
You could check the logs on the panel...  
Do you give in the curiosity and temptation one last time?  
Do you check out the main Mother panel?
You walk up to the panel and the screen automatically lights up.  
Hmm... the machine needs the password to let you in on its secrets.  
Do you try to enter?
Hopefully the ALIEN will not find you hunched over an old screen.
PASSWORD [4 DIGITS]:
Correct.   
Incorrect.   
You must have forgotten that two years have already gone by...   
Incorrect.
That makes sense... Ash did wake up every few months or so to check up on Mother.  
The passwords were updated regularly.  
But that is not important now.  
You check the logs and you freeze.   30:0   i    minutes left to self-destruct.
Oh no no no no.  
You scroll up to see what and who set it off.  
Special Order	937? What is this directive...?  
'[...] even at the expense of the crew, the perfect organism must be returned  
to the laboratories on Earth.'  
Those Weyland-Yutani bastards.  
Of course Ash would rather kill us all. Corporation's ideal puppet.  
I should leave now. The time is ticking after all.
You failed to provide the correct password.  
TERMINAL LOCKED.  
At least I tried. You think to yourself as you back out.  
I have spent too much time in here, I should leave soon.
You do not think you recall the password.  
Only Ash and Dallas were supposed to after all.  
Just 4 digits, wonder what could that have been. You mutter to yourself.  
However, there's no time for such thoughts and the chills on your body reminds you of this fact. . 
You should escape as soon as possible.
You may not know the password, but you know the perfect remedy for disobedient technology.  
WHAM! You kick the computer underneath with all your might.  
Hoping the ALIEN will not hear your deranged solution, you stare at the screen as it refreshes.  
You did not expect this to actually work, but here it is...  
You check the logs and you freeze.
No way, you need to leave this ship as soon as possible.  
This is not the time to be sitting at the panel.  
You will never know the secrets that Ash and Dallas hid behind their backs.  
But they are dead and you are not, and let's keep it that way.  
You swiftly head to the exit hatch.
You think and think about this idea for far too long.  
There is a panel in the middle of the room, but where are the cables?  
They must be hidden somewhere...  
Maybe if you follow them, you will find some CHEMFUEL at the end?  
Since every idea is worth trying out, you get on your knees  
And try to pry out the floor tiles.  
You end up bruising and straining yourself to no satisfiable result.  
You must be really losing your mind.  
Best to get out of here.
You look around and you decide to inspect one of the broken pods.   
Hidden under the steering panels is a full canister of unused CHEMFUEL.  
The God, if They even exist, must be looking out for you...
You opened up the stall door and you saw a broken crate to the vents.  
It is leading up to something you cannot see.  
Do you dare to go through?
Goosebumps appear on your skin, it must be shocked by your decision.  
You crawl through the vents slowly.
Your movements are making a lot of noise.  
Hotter than before you emerge on the other side.  
You have found yourself in a broken escape pod that was barred from the outside.  
There must be some abandoned equipment you think to yourself.  
Found hidden all around are 1 CHEMFUEL and 2 WATER.   
Quickly, but steadily you go back to the WC stall.  
You feel so hot, this journey has made you sweat.  
Do you pour WATER on yourself to cool down?
You're so lucky you have just found some WATER.  
It helps you keep your head and thoughts straight and focused on the goal.
Even though you have just found WATER, you want to keep it for special occasions.  
But you feel so sick you collapse on the bathroom floor...  
Thankfully it seems like the ALIEN is not nearby.  
Maybe IT does not feel the need to pee.  
You are safe for now, but you have slightly damaged yourself.
The flashes of hot air have made you lose your mind even more.  
As you try to open the bottle of WATER you trip and land on the bathroom floor.  
The bottle spills all of its contents around and you're left with nothing.  
Some of it has sprinkled on you, but you still have damaged yourself.
This is dangerous, you think to yourself.  
No matter what goods I could potentially find on the side,  
It is not worth it.  
You turn around.
You try to examine the fallen crate for whatever reason.  
You wonder what made it break? 
You slide your hand against the side.  
It just stabs you in the finger. Obviously.  
You try to stop the bleeding. It could alert the ALIEN.  
Thankfully, since you are in the WC, you find some toilet paper right next to you.  
Ripley, Ripley, you are such an idiot, what were you thinking? You mutter to yourself.  
You have just wasted time here and needlessly hurt yourself.  
Resignated, you turn around.
The sweat forms on your face, you feel the ALIEN coming this way.  
You have no time to hide now, it could be here any moment.  
Do you use the fire to scare it away?  
If yes, prepare to have a steady stance and a fast hand.   
FIRE : FLAME  
Scare the ALIEN. Write '    ' quickly!   
As you expected, the ALIEN appears from round the corner.  
Each moment counts, as you press on the trigger.  
The fire burts out of the flamethrower!  
You try to hold your ground.  
The ALIEN is not scared of you, but it is scared of the flames...  
You have won this duel, the ALIEN retreats in fear.   
As expected, the ALIEN appears from round the corner.  
Each moment counts, as you try to find the trigger.  
The ALIEN feels your panic and quickly attacks you with its tail.  
Thankfully, you manage to fire in just the right time,  
The tail only scratches you and then gets engulfed in the flames.  
You try to hold your ground, but the pain makes you tremble.  
The ALIEN is wounded too and it fears the fire you control.  
You have won this duel, but just barely. 
The ALIEN retreats.
This might have been a stupid decision.  
You think to yourself as you see the ALIEN appear.  
The boxes to your side catch your eye.  
Having no time for anything else, you throw the boxes at the ALIEN.  
They successfully block the way.  
The ALIEN, now angrier, attacks you with its tail! It pierces your shoulder.  
Being unable to get to you fully, the ALIEN retreats.  
It will get to you sooner than later after all.
What is happening? You feel dizzy...  
Suddenly the ALIEN appears in all of its glory.  
You wake your brain up and grab the firethrower,  
But the ALIEN has already attacked you with its tail.  
The pain is a great motivator to survive. You press the trigger.  
With the blood on your legs, you try to stand your ground.
The pain is so terrible you drop on one knee.  
Something falls out of your pocket, it's 1 WATER.  
No matter, you stand up and raise the flames higher.
The fire licks the ALIEN's tail and as tries to escape.  
You have barely won this duel, you need to be more concious.
As you look around the Bridge you notice a dim blinking light on one of the distant consoles.  
You have never used it before, it was never your responsibility.  
Check it out ?     
Careful not to make any noise, you approach the console.  
The blinking light appears to be an indicator...But of what?  
It highlights the MEDLAB.  
There's a button not covered by dust on the keyboard.  
Do you press it? Think it over.
You press the button and then a wave of dust covers you.  
A cabinet under the console suddenly opens up just a bit.  
Inside you find 2 litres of CHEMFUEL.  
It must have been Dallas... But why?
Too scared for your own good you leave this console be.  
What did that button do?  
Who must have recently pressed it?  
Now you will never know.
You were so confused you pressed all the buttons on the keyboard.  
A wave of thick dust covers you and your fingers.  
You jump in fright as all the cabinets around you burst open!  
One of the cabinets hits you in the back of your head.  
You kneel and hide your head in your hands.  
As you come to your senses, you see 2 litres of CHEMFUEL in a cabinet across you.  
You leave this suspicious light be as suspicious as it needs to be.
You look around and see that there are lights on other consoles.  
This one is blinking, but it is of none of your concerns.  
You order yourself to snap out of it.  
You have more pressing issues than this after all.
As you enter the area, you start feeling increasingly dizzy.  
The fire that broke out one level below increased the temperature all around.  
Will you pour water on yourself to cool down?
You can see more clearly now.     
It is time to focus.
You feel yourself slipping away.     
To stay concious you try to punch yourself.     
It will work for now, but you need to find more water.
You notice a fresh acid-made hole on the ground.  
Search it?
Nothing can stop you now!  
With a steady hand you reach out and...  
Bingo! You have no idea why, but you have got 1 CHEMFUEL.
You know better than to risk getting acid on your hands.  
The hole sizzles evilly.
As you stick your hand inside the hole, your weak body trembles.  
OUCH! A speck of acid nuzzles your sleeve...  
It has not damaged you greatly, but you feel a new wound forming right under.
There's an open vent, that was closed before...  
Search it?
Nothing can stop you now!  
You climb up and...  
Bingo! Hidden, left by nobody knows who, there lies 1 WATER.
Really? You really do not want to see inside the vents?  
The vents that the ALIEN uses almost all the time?  
You turn your back to the open vent  
And you feel yourself getting more, and more vulnerable.
You try to climb up the vents,  
But you are too weak and your hands slip away from the ledge...  
Falling on your latter end did hurt a lot.
As soon as you open the useless vault, you pour the CHEMFUEL into the reservoir.  
It is ready now.  
By forcing yourself to stop checking your back for just a few seconds, you barge into the pod.  
A small ginger creature slithers between your legs. It is Jonesy.  
You close the pad and prepare for takeoff.  
After a short while, which feels like your last moments, the spaceship starts to move away from you...  
You take your recorder and turn it on.  
This is Ripley,  
W564502460H, executive officer,  
last survivor of the commercial  
starship Nostromo signing off.
All your injuries... They slow you down.  
You have endured a lot of damage, but you are human.  
As your blood marks the path you've taken...  
It has lead the ALIEN right to you...  
